Refactor LBP docs to support multiple use cases (#319)
balancer/docs-v3: docs/concepts/explore-available-balancer-pools/liquidity-bootstrapping-pool/investments-divestments.md

---
order: 3
title: Investment & Divestment
references:
  - details: Akita token sale discussion
    link: https://gov.gitcoin.co/t/akita-sale-stream-implementation-make-it-a-scheduled-liquidity-pool/4717
---

# Strategic Investments & Divestments

> Beyond token launches, Liquidity Bootstrapping Pools (LBPs) serve as programmable execution engines for institutional treasuries. They allow DAOs and funds to enter (Invest) or exit (Divest) massive positions in illiquid assets without the slippage associated with atomic swaps or the signaling risks of OTC deals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Beyond token launches, Liquidity Bootstrapping Pools (LBPs) serve as programmable execution engines for institutional treasuries. They allow DAOs and funds to enter (Invest) or exit (Divest) massive positions without the slippage associated with atomic swaps or the signaling risks of OTC deals.
```

Reviewer: our case study refers to a illiquid token but a large enough buy can have significant slippage

## Execution Philosophy: Maker vs. Taker

> For treasuries managing significant capital, the primary challenge is **Liquidity Consumption**. Traditional execution methods like Time-Weighted Average Price (TWAP) algorithms break large orders into small "slices" over time. However, TWAP strategies are "takers", they consume existing liquidity, paying swap fees and remaining vulnerable to front-running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For treasuries managing significant capital, the primary challenge is **Liquidity Consumption**. Traditional execution methods like Time-Weighted Average Price (TWAP) algorithms break large orders into small "slices" over time. However, TWAP strategies are "takers", they consume existing liquidity, paying swap fees for it.
```

Reviewer: i didn't want to have any claims around front-running

| Metric | TWAP Strategy | Balancer LBP |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Role** | Liquidity Taker (Pays Fees) | Liquidity Maker (Earns Fees) |
| **Market Impact** | Dependent on external pool depth. | Creates its own depth; minimizes impact via weight shifting. |
| **Slippage** | Negative (-10 to -25 bps) | Net Positive (due to accrued swap fees). |
| **Signaling** | "Stealth" (until detected). | Transparent & Scheduled (Reduces panic). |

**Logic:** The weight shift aligns the internal price with the external market. Arbitrageurs are incentivized to fill the order to close the gap. The treasury effectively "hires" the market to execute the trade, capturing the arbitrage profit as swap fees rather than losing it as slippage.

## Strategic Divestment (Selling)

Divestment involves selling a large quantity of an asset (e.g., a grant received in an illiquid token, or diversifying treasury holdings) into a more liquid asset like USDC or ETH.

Unlike a **Token Launch** (which targets 2-4 days for hype maximization), a **Strategic Divestment** prioritizes stability and value retention over long horizons.

> ### 1. Duration & Patience

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1. Duration
```

3.  **Accumulation:** The treasury accumulates tokens at the "market-clearing price" as the weights shift, effectively acting as a liquidity provider to its own accumulation event.

## V3 Risk Management: Hooks

Balancer V3 "Hooks" allow treasuries to enforce institutional-grade safety rails previously impossible in DeFi.

### Price Floor Hook (Stop-Loss)
*   **Problem:** In a standard LBP, if the external market crashes, the LBP continues to sell, potentially selling assets below a critical "worst-case" valuation.
*   **V3 Solution:** An `onBeforeSwap` hook can check the resulting spot price of a transaction.
    *   *Logic:* `if (NewSpotPrice < MinPriceFloor) revert();`
    *   *Outcome:* The pool automatically pauses selling if the asset value degrades beyond acceptable limits, protecting the treasury from "flash crashes".

### MEV-Capture Hook
*   **Problem:** Arbitrageurs extract value by rebalancing the pool.
*   **V3 Solution:** An `onAfterSwap` hook can calculate the profit generated by the arbitrageur and dynamically adjust the swap fee.
    *   *Logic:* Capture a portion of the arbitrage "edge" and redirect it to the pool creator (the Treasury).

>     *   *Outcome:* The treasury captures value that would otherwise be lost to MEV bots.

Reviewer: this is cool but a bit stretch. can we simplify it and simply have a paragraph saying projects can embed features to LBPs (e.g. the ones you described, but no need same level of detail) through V3 hooks
